# D0 Ideas

Personally, I enjoy playing one another's idle games, for as much as it can be said that anyone plays them. I like big numbers and I like watching them go up very fast, but one problem I have with them is that by their very nature they don't encourage continuous active play. They tend to reach a point where after you have played the game for a little while, you enter a cycle of leaving for a couple of hours, coming back pressing three buttons, rinse repeat.  Ultimately what I want to do, is take some of the elements of incremental value, satirical access, and stupid big numbers and apply them to a game that encourages more active interaction. After some brainstorming and the discussions with my classmates I have a couple of different spins on this concept that I could explore.  They are in no particular order a city building simulation, and isomorphic exploration game that's kind of a riff off of Terraria/Minecraft, and a gameification of the classroom experience.

## City Sim

This one was largely inspired by some of the comments from Logan, but I envision it as a tile-based city building simulator. That is to say that the map you're working with is a discrete set of tiles, and you are given a variety of buildings that you can put on each individual tile or sets of tiles. Each of these buildings could generate either a central resource or one of us Dept of resources and you can increase the generation of that resource by building additional buildings of this type or upgrading individual buildings. I'd like to design this in such a way that it encourages systemic gameplay, for instance, buildings are next to each other increases their productivity or there are no landmarks that can affect how your buildings work. This one seems the most straightforward when it comes to capturing the incremental game experience, but I am struggling with ways to design it to encourage active play. That could you potentially solved by an introduction of mini games but if I were to pursue this idea I imagine that would be something that I could we go out in the implementation process.
I think this could potentially work best as a what I call low brain power games, one you can be playing about devoting your full attention to. And as such I think you would work best as a mobile app  I think this would certainly be interesting cause I know it doesn't really deal with the issues I'm trying to potentially solve with a game like this. Overall I think I'd give this a 4 for enthusiasm, I'm sure I would enjoy making it but of the ideas I have it's not my favorite.

## Gameified Classroom

I'm not going to lie, of my three ideas I think this one is the least fleshed-out, but that's because I don't really know how to put this concept into words. Some parts of it are easier to explain, I gamifying the classroom experience I mean creating a playable character that interacts with Academia in a very abstract sense. They might get points for attending a class, doing an assignment, grading a paper something along those lines. All the ins and outs and specifics of this game are harder for me to navigate, it does lend itself clarity for developing the renown/prestige system most incremental games have. Clarify the Renown system is a special resource or marker or system that the game uses to signify how well you've done in a playthrough. Brinson Imagine One playthrough of this game as being a four-year undergraduate degree. Angry so you are and one degree point, and on your next playthrough of the game that degree point makes it easier or quicker to complete again. There is of course more nuanced to this system but that's a general overview of how it works.
This is something I can easily see working well as a mobile game or as a desktop game, and I imagine it would lend itself more to active play than the city Sim wood each individual action the player must do is smaller. As far as a personal enthusiasm score, for this one it's maybe a 3 but probably closer to 2, a very useful thought experiment that I am glad I went through but still not quite what I'm trying to accomplish with my original goal.

## 2-D Exploration

Of my three ideas, I think this one is the one I prefer the most and have the best handle on. Search explain what I mean by to the exploration, that's really just serving as a framing device for the mechanics of the game. This one would still borrow some of the tile-based elements from the city Sim as well as some of the microinteractions from the game if I classroom. I think the best explain how I envisioned this style of game working, I need to outline the core gameplay Loop. In my mind the core gameplay loop for this game will be to explore the map till you find one of the natural resources(a rock with iron ore in it), gather naturally spawning resources (breaking a rock and getting iron ore), refine/process those resources in some way (smelt the iron ore into an iron bar), use the refined resource to improve your characters stats are abilities (use some number of iron bars  to make your pickaxe stronger to make gathering iron ore next time easier) repeat. Now as for how I would actually introduce elements from incremental games into this I think would be best accomplished using systemic. For instance let's say your characters out of point where they need to smelt iron faster, when way to accomplish this would be spending some of another resource into your furnace to make it just a little bit faster but scale that exponentially so that eventually all those little bits become a lot of bit. The idea is to take that rapid exponential growth seen in incremental games and apply it to the elements of a exploration game until you're working with stupid big numbers.
Now I think this would be the type of game that works best as designed for a desktop or console experience, that is to say distinctly not a mobile experience. I'm sure he's with you translated to a mobile Experience, mobile games tend to have certain mechanics and styles that I am not personally a fan of, and while I could simply not include these mechanics I still think the V experience would be best under the connotations of playing a PC or console game. No need to fight player expectations this way.  And like I said above I think this is my favorite of the three ideas I came up with during the brainstorming process, and I'm going to give it a Solid V for enthusiasm because the more I thought about it the more I wanted to be able to play this kind of game.

# Summary
As I said above, the 2-d exploration variation is I believe my preferred idea and the one I would like to run with. currently, I don't have any grand ideas for a narrative or anything like that, but I do have ideas for a bunch of systems that I think would work well in a game and ways to tie those systems together so that they create positive feedback loops between them. While my ideas are still there Patchwork, I do think they make a solid foundation for the type of game I'm envisioning and it also feels like something I'm capable of doing even if some of the ideas are a little bit more out there.
