# Overview
*This section should be no more than a paragraph. It should present a concise overview that summarizes the purpose and intent of the project and describes what the world will be like when the project is completed. This overview may be somewhat idealistic, but it still should be grounded in the realities of time and resource limitations.*

My goal is to create an active-incremental exploration game. I will do this by borrowing elements from the incremental genre such as snowball growth, systemic gameplay, and ***Really Big*** numbers and fusing them with the active player-driven elements of exploration games such as discovery, character advancement, and agency. I'm going to dress up these mechanics in the aesthetics of games such as *Terraria*, *Minecraft*, and *Stardew Valley* while trying to put my twist on these.

# Concept
*This section should very clearly specify both the scope of the project as what will be considered “out of scope”. Be sure to describe the intended major features that will be included in the project. Also, identify any product features or characteristics that a stakeholder might anticipate, but which are not planned to be included in the project.*

The core concept of this game is that I intend to create an active-incremental game. To explain what I mean by active-incremental, I need to break that down into its constituent pieces. Incremental games are an established style of game that is also commonly referred to as Idle games; some examples include Adventure Capitalist/Communist and Cookie Clicker. I'm adding the active portion to the name because one flaw I see in these games is they tend to become self-running machines that don't encourage active player interaction. They tend to reach a certain point where it's a self-running machine. They reach a point you'll show up, click a few buttons, and disappear for a handful of hours. While I can certainly see the strength behind that kind of design, that is not what I'm seeking to create and is, in effect, what I'm attempting to solve. I'm doing this by introducing active elements into the structure of this game. I'm pulling some of these elements from exploration-heavy games such as Minecraft and Terraria that encourage and require player interactivity.
The best way for me to illustrate this is to discuss what I intend to make the core gameplay loop of my active-incremental game. I'm informing all gameplay decisions of this game around the phrase "Mine, Refine, Upgrade," and I also think that this will drive the core gameplay loop; in a sense, this is my design thesis. To examine that on a more micro level, let's look at a specific example. When the player spawns into the world, they will be surrounded by a couple of resource nodes. One of which could potentially be an iron node. The player would then need to mine that iron node using their pickaxe, which would cause iron ore to drop. The player can then refine that iron ore into an iron ingot. They can then use that iron ingot to make progress on upgrading their pickaxe.
Using that same core loop, I have other systems that I would implement to add some variety to the game. One of which would be a structures system, which would be how players refine the raw materials. I would also introduce some more complications of the mix, such as random spawning enemies or potential natural disasters; I haven't quite figured that out yet.
While that sounds great and all, that doesn't actually explain how I intend to capture the feeling of snowballing progress inherent to incremental games. That is captured in the upgrade portion of my design pieces. Using a micro-level analysis upgrading the player's pickaxe could allow iron nodes to drop more iron or when they're mined. Or the structures could reduce the time needed to refine iron ore into iron bars, and if it's moving at a sufficiently fast speed, simply increase the output of iron bars for the same amount of iron ore. I intend to use each tiny little upgrade to increase the upgraded item's efficiency by some percentage and capitalize on the power of exponential growth to deliver the incremental feeling to this game.

# Requirements
*A Software Requirements Specification (SRS) is a written understanding of system requirements prior to any actual design or implementation work. The SRS section states in precise and explicit language those functions and capabilities a software system must provide, and any required constraints which the system must follow. An SRS contains functional and nonfunctional requirements only, rather than design ideas. Functional requirements describe the functionality or capability that the software is to have and thus describes how it works, as opposed to why or even what it does.*

### Major Systems
  - Save system that preserves:
    - Map info (resource nodes, structure placement and level)
    - Player Info (level, perks, tools)
  - Inventory Management (player and placed structures)
  - Placeable Structures
  - Resource Scaling based on structure level
  - Resource Scaling based on player tools (and possibly nearby structures)
  - A curve for determining scaling (i.e. how many resources and what type needed to upgrade given structure/tool)
  - Resource node spawning (needs to consider spawn location, resource type and relative rarity)
  - Enemies and combat
  - Viewport and Sceene Transitions
  - Menuing UI
  - Zoning System (forest, desert, mountian etc.)
  - "Tower of endless progression"

### Minor systems
  - Resource variety and tiers
  - Ditto Enemies
  - Different regions that influence spawn rate of specific resources
